This is absolutely fine. It's just a
minor little fix.
I'm a father to two beautiful daughters.
I'm also a husband,
a son,
a cyclist,
a citizen. [music]
>> you so much.
Energy demand is expected to double
between now and about 2030.
And that comes at a steep cost to the
planet.
>> Inside the house, it can get up to 100°.
It's an extreme heat crisis. We need so
much more energy, and we need to find
renewables fast. Technology is not the
excuse. [music] It's entirely doable.
There's the same amount of thrust as a
jumbo jet. I believe we can power the
world. What we do here is a fuel [music]
which can replace fossil fuel.
>> And protect it at the same time.
>> runs on liquefied [music] sunshine. This
innovative technology could power
locations around the world.
We have to [music] remind ourselves that
we are driving this.
There's nothing else that I want to do
in my life. Sláinte mhath. Sláinte
mhath. Cheers. I'm Nikolaj
Coster-Waldau, and this is an optimist's
guide to the planet.
So many questions.
I just happened to have a piano with me,
and I sit down.
Energy built all the things we love
about the modern world,
>> [music]
>> including AI.
Père Lachaise Cemetery is one of the
most famous [music] cemeteries in the
world. It's a cultural landmark filled
with art and history.
The problem is
our unbridled appetite for energy may
literally be killing us.
Hey. Want to talk to you about How
dangerous do you think
it is if we don't curb
um
the the emissions? From your point of
view, I'm saying
AI.
The consequences could be severe.
The planet itself will endure, but human
societies are definitely at risk.
Back home today,
the Danish news just announced because
of the AI, by 2050, they predict we're
going to double the energy needs
that we have now. Cuz we've [music] been
doing so well in Denmark with, you know,
producing renewable energy that can
cover over the whole country, and
>> [music]
>> it's really good. So, we're kind of
going in the opposite direction.
And this is just one tiny little
country. Since it's going to happen
everywhere,
AI is really giving us another big
mountain we have to climb.
We hear about AI every day,
but its energy demands are hidden.
That's why I'm getting a tour [music] of
one of the 12,000 data centers worldwide
for a behind-the-scenes look at how AI
is powered.
I need a [music] passport, right? Yes,
you do.
Security is tight.
Hardly any visitors ever [music] get to
step inside a data center.
Hello. Nikolaj. Yes. Christopher. Chris,
nice to meet
I brought my passport, I understand.
>> Okay, good. So, we'll bring you over to
the window here. Bonjour.
Morning. Put it in here?
There's a lot of security here. There
is, indeed.
>> Why is that? Well, we've got a lot of
customers in there doing very important
work.
Do I need to get through my
>> Yes, always.
Okay.
This is severance.
We won't leave you alone in here. Okay.
>> After you.
All that security means we have a huge
entourage following our every step
into the heart
of the data center. You use your phone
every day. You use your computer, you
watch the TV, you call your friends
[music] or family. So, every time you do
this type of
actions, you use a data center.
When we think [music] about the cloud,
we think it's virtual, it's imaginary,
but in fact, it's actual cables, it's
hardware, and energy.
I mean, how much power do you guys need?
In this campus, we're around 45 MW, so
it's
almost like a city or even more.
Wow.
So, there's a lot of challenges on power
and cooling.
Should I get this? Yeah. It's almost
like standing near the airplanes. Why is
it so loud? A lot of cooling, a lot of
air. So, a lot of air means a lot of
noise. So,
I can just feel it. Yes, the heat.
>> [music]
>> Yes.
You can basically dry your clothes here,
yeah.
Is this progress? Exactly, yeah.
Right.
Traditional CPUs consume 40 to 50, maybe
70 W of electricity. New GPUs are
graphical processing units that are
needed for things like artificial
intelligence. They use 10 to maybe even
20 X the amount of energy as a
traditional CPU.
So, how much power does this one room
use in a single day?
5 MW.
5 MW. Yes.
5 MW is enough to power over 4,000
French homes for a day.
And are you going to expand? Do you need
more? Yes, we always need more.
Wow.
The data centers are like I explained it
to be smaller. Mhm.
This is big. They're getting much
bigger. Yeah. This is a sort of a
medium-size facility. They're looking at
building gigawatt-size facilities. You
know, about 1 in 3% of the global
electricity consumption right now is
related to data centers. That's
projected to double by 2030 to about the
electricity consumption of the entire
country of Japan. I mean, doesn't that
worry you?
The AI thing. [music]
It's a race without knowing exactly
where we're going, and we cannot afford
to stop and think about the consequences
cuz we just have to get there [music]
first. So, we actually have uh goals,
carbon goals that are aligned with
science. So, we have a near-term target,
which is to reduce our operational
emissions by 50% by 2030. And then a
longer-term goal to be net zero by 2040.
But you're right. So, [music] between 30
and 50% of the energy that goes into one
of these buildings is simply removing
heat from the computers. But at the end
of the day, you can only [music] do so
much if the electricity isn't renewable,
then
we have a problem. That's right.
Now, a couple of interesting things are
happening. When you generate that much
heat, sometimes it can be quite
valuable.
We actually recover that heat, and we
can use it to do things like heat
adjacent buildings or homes.
Oh, there we go.
Yeah, so one of the new technologies is
liquid cooling, where you have a heat
exchanger here, and you've got hot water
flowing out, cool water flowing in. It's
got a plate directly on these hot GPUs,
and it really is efficient. And when
it's at full scale,
we expect to serve um or provide heat to
about homes in the area. And then we
think about the great things that we can
do with the energy by thinking out of
the box.
Like heat the greenhouse on the roof.
Oh, look at this. Yeah.
Quite good. Very good.
Do you see the living room, where we've
got lots of native plants in a big city
like Paris, and we've got a couple of
beehives and actually make our own
honey.
>> You have beehives?
Don't get too close.
We did want to point out that the
Olympic pool is also heated by the heat
from our data center. So, this is one of
the projects that we're providing heat
for in the community as well.
But I have to be honest, this really
scares me. And looking ahead, we're not
going to
need less data. And technology is not
going away. It's part of one of the
tools that we live with today, and it
propels our lives.
>> Yeah.
And if we can make small incremental
changes, I think, you know, society is
going to benefit overall from here on
out.
But are incremental changes enough
when we keep building more and more data
centers?
It is quite shocking when you see the
actual numbers. The amount of power that
goes through this place is insane. We
have to remind ourselves that we are
driving this. We are the consumers.
I want to talk to Gaia all the time. Uh
we want all these things to happen. Is
this going to change how much you talk
to Gaia now that you know what how much
that You see, now this is at the core of
the problem, because now Gaia and I, we
have a relationship.
I think I should talk to her now. Hey
Gaia. Hey Nikolai, what's up? Yeah, I
just went to this data center. But I
worry that this will tell the story that
all these data centers are green. It's a
valid concern. Highlighting the
innovative ways they reuse excess heat
is great, but it doesn't erase the
overall environmental impact of data
centers. Being transparent about the
full picture helps avoid greenwashing.
Around the world
our rising energy demands are driving
millions deeper into the climate crisis.
And the burden falls hardest on those
with the least access to that energy.
I've come to India's tech capital to see
what that imbalance looks like up close.
Here summer temperatures routinely top
100° F, exposing a brutal divide.
Those who can afford to stay cool
and those left to endure the heat.
Just have to find this guy.
His name is Vivek Galani. He is doing a
project called fair conditioning. Cuz
we've all heard about the heat waves in
India, how people are dying. And of
course, if you're poor
you're not going to afford air
conditioning. So he's finding a a very
low cost low tech solution to try and
help people.
Oh, there is There's a guy waving at me.
Vivek? Yes.
How are you? I'm good. I'm good. It's
It's a funny coming from the subway and
into this this
the contrast so already Yeah, you can
feel it. There's multiple Indias.
Those kinds of transitions, you know,
you transition back into a world that
has been left behind by the world of
success and glamour. This kind of
coexistence is is what creates a lot of
tension.
So you started this thing when?
In 2012.
Fair conditioning, yeah. The
conventional response to this heat is to
run more air conditioning.
So the affluent population are buying
more air conditioners, which is actually
making it much worse for the poor.
Because it heats the world up while it's
cooling a few people.
In the last 5 years the issue has gone
from an issue of comfort to basically
just survival and and
addressing an extreme heat crisis.
I'm an environmental engineer by
training.
And I realized that nobody's doing much
about the most vulnerable communities. A
lot of people that come from privilege
nobody really wants to get dirty.
So we started a small program looking
mainly at how can we design differently
to avoid air conditioning as like a
default setting.
Our goal is to address extreme heat in
India's informal settlements or slums.
This is the community. Okay. This is the
invisible population. You might call
them squatters. This is basically built
by what you can find. Yes, exactly. So
it's called self-built housing. It's a
better term than saying slum, you know.
How hot does it get?
It can get the inside the house it can
get up to 50°. 50? 50, yeah. Right.
So this is For example, let's look at
this house. You can see these roofing
sheets. Even when it's 30°, the
radiation is baking that roof.
It's like being inside a sauna all the
time.
Maybe we can even go in
I'll take off my shoes on and Okay,
okay. Yeah, you'll have to bend down.
Yeah, come.
Five people.
This is
three children three children and wife
So this is I think about 100 sq ft. So
this place is where they would live. All
five six of them would sleep here. On
the On the floor. Oh yeah, yeah, they
sleep on the floor. Yes, yes, yes.
There's no No, in fact that's the
coolest one of the ways to remain cool
is to sleep on the floor. Yeah. Uh so
she's lucky she has a slightly higher
roof. But when the roof is very low and
it's hot It's like a Yeah. There's
There's a There's a heater, right?
>> Yeah. above you. Right. And there's no
way you can see there's no way for the
air to circulate, you know. So the roof
is is where all the the problems are
coming in from really. And if you can
stop the problem there Yeah. then this
place would feel different. We are
trying to create a solution besides just
sticking an AC into this place. That's
too expensive, obviously.
>> Not only is too expensive, it's going to
make it worse. Every AC installed here,
they're going to reject all the heat
into the window of another house. So an
AC is going to create its own demand in
a way.
So we're working with the community to
develop solutions that don't need any
energy at all because they're off the
grid
and they're affordable.
Okay, so that's that's my colleague
Maya. Hi Maya. She is an architect. So
this is one of the the solutions that
that we're working on. You want to first
take a look at it? Yeah, I I would love
to take a look at it.
>> this is good. And this is a safe Yeah,
we we've signed all the paperwork.
So that's like a curtain Yeah. that
unfolds and folds. Yeah. Oh yes, here we
go.
Beautiful.
You can see the shiny Yes. Yeah, so
that's the radiant barrier. So even if
it gets hot on the blue top so this is
going to not let So it's actually going
to let the radiant heat go through. It's
like a gate. It's like a gate that shuts
the sun off. And in the night time you
would remove that extra covering to
allow the heat to escape into the night
sky.
How much of a difference does this make
on a really hot day? Mhm. The roof will
go down from say if it's 40, it'll go
down to about 30. So we can get about a
10° drop. That's amazing. Yeah. The goal
is to make the solutions affordable to
the extent of about 100 rupees a square
foot. So that's about a
a dollar and can be afforded by homes if
they pay it off over about a year and a
half.
I'll show you for the solutions of the
same type. So now this is
um this is the home. Yeah. But can we
come come inside? Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Okay.
Is it a little more pleasant? So we have
basically taken the whole idea of the
radiant barrier and made it internal.
Oh, I see. Okay.
Yeah. How long have you lived here?
Uh around 40 years. 40 years? Uh yes.
And how long have you had this this
roof?
Uh so around 2 months.
This is your workplace.
Thank you so much for [music] inva-
allowing us to invade your your house.
Essentially we're trying to work with
the community
to develop appropriate technology
solutions.
We are looking to also use
uh rooftop vegetable cultivation as a
way to also absorb water which otherwise
would become flood water.
So this solution actually solves two
issues at once, heat and overflowing
sewage. This is the drainage. You can
see this very quickly overflowing.
There's a lot of sewage backs up here.
So you will be living in a river of
Ah, it's a it's a very strong smell.
So imagine if we had on these roofs when
the rain fell a lot of it was captured
by soil
and that would reduce the amount of
water that would, you know, drain out
here.
We can actually eat this. Okay. Like You
have it on camera, right? You say yes,
you're going to eat this. No, no, no. We
have it on camera. You said I could eat
it.
>> You got to eat it. Yeah, exactly. I
think it's carry away. Also green
surfaces captures the heat. Absolutely.
When the water evaporates Yeah.
it cools the the entire environment up.
So that's the way we work. We come in
and work with them.
How big is the is the need?
I mean it is
I don't think anybody's even counted it.
And it's lifetimes and lifetimes of
work.
Fair conditioning has developed more
than 50 low-cost ways for people to cool
their homes without needing to be
connected to the grid.
No patents, no profit motive.
Just open-source solutions shared with
the people who need it most.
And you've been here before? Yeah, I've
been here.
This is not a very pretentious place and
not air conditioning. We try to [snorts]
avoid air conditioning. Seriously, I'm
not getting an awarded as much as
possible.
What you're doing is such a it's so
efficient and it's so simple, it's so
accessible.
>> Yes. But this is about change. How do we
lower the temperature in our cities
because the the bigger the cities become
we'll be raising the temperature
unnecessarily. Absolutely. And and the
person in the community that cannot take
risks and and who aren't trying to solve
problems, they are the ones who are
suffering the most. Most architects and
engineers who study cooling, air
conditioning never go to informal
settlements, you know. I Frankly, I did
not hang out in these places, so I I did
not know
these issues. So this part of the world
has never been seen as contributors to
anything good. They are just service
providers. They provide us the cooks,
the cleaners, the drivers, but overall,
you guys are a drain on us. Why have you
dedicated your life to helping Because I
have so much privilege. I have
benefited. I'm a male in a patriarchy
society, you know?
And I have not never seen vicariousness
in my life. And there's nothing else
that I want to do in my
>> life. Amazing.
Around the world,
the people least responsible for climate
change suffer the most.
Bringing them relief is important work.
But it won't matter unless we tackle
[music] the real issue.
If we want less heat,
we have to cut the emissions that come
from how we power our lives.
And that means finding clean, reliable,
renewable energy for everyone.
When we do this, Johan, we go
everywhere. And we're traveling all the
way up here to Scotland. What most
people love is the traveling.
>> Road trip of it.
>> Yeah, the road trip. And And you're
stuck together, whether you like each
other or not. Exactly. Exactly.
[laughter] Exactly.
What do you do when you're not doing
this? I do
music I'm saying.
We're traveling to the [music] Orkney
Islands off the northern tip of
Scotland.
Once called the end of the world,
Orkney has been a key hub in the North
Sea oil and gas boom for over 50 years.
But that's changing.
We know we have to reduce burning of
fossil fuels,
but we just cannot seem to lower our
energy demands.
We need so much more energy, and we need
to find renewables fast.
All renewables have this problem that
when the sun is shining, yeah, we got
solar power. If it's not shining, we
don't. When the wind is blowing, we got
wind power. If it's not,
we we don't have any. We're going to
meet some young engineers that have come
up with this incredible rig that can
actually harvest the energy of the tide.
Tidal power is continuous. We we can
time it. We know exactly when it's
there. So, um
I it's a it's a pretty big deal if
they've if they really have cracked it.
So,
I'm curious.
Hello. Hi. Nice to meet you. Lisa.
>> Lisa, yes. Okay. Brian. I'm Brian.
Brian, nice to meet you. Nice to meet
you.
Oh, I'm so excited. I get to meet so
many people. I thought I was only going
to meet you guys. I thought I was only
going to meet you guys.
>> [laughter]
>> I think you need to get a drink. And I
was just going to say get a drink. Can't
be in Scotland without a drink. I was
hoping for whiskey when I come to
Scotland. Well, Well, yeah. We can we
can do that.
Oh my lord.
Oh, cheers.
Slàinte mhath. Slàinte mhath.
>> Cheers.
>> Slàinte mhath. Cheers.
Cheers, guys.
Cheers.
Any of you local local?
Yeah. Oh.
Well, that's a good sign. So, it must be
nice to live here then since you Pretty
nice, yeah. decided to stay. Yeah. How's
this small island?
>> It's funny cuz
Why is Orkney a place where you have a
lot of renewable energy innovation?
Because of our islander mentality and
and we have to be able to provide for
ourselves, design things that are that
work for us here with the resources we
have. Orkney is quite unique because
we're an archipelago, so we've got the
tides, which are kind of concentrated as
they run through the the islands. You've
got the Atlantic whipping through to the
North Sea.
So, it's brilliant.
By the way, we're going out tomorrow,
right? We are, yeah. And
I never get seasick. I hear you do get
seasick.
>> Well, I never do until it happened Now
it's happened twice.
>> [laughter]
>> Don't worry. We ordered good weather for
you. So, it'll be fine.
>> [laughter]
>> Hello.
Oh, hey.
So, what is this?
>> This is our main workshop, so we use it
for maintenance of bits of kit from the
the O2 turbine.
And how long have you been here? 2014.
So, we've done two turbine builds out of
here. So, the first one was the 250. So,
that was just before I started here. And
then when I started in 2014 was the
start of the 2000, so that bottom one
there. We did as much as we could here
with the resource that we had. And it
was quite impressive to do all
ourselves. So, you know, it was pretty
cool to be part of all that. And here,
where I like being. Like I didn't want
to go away and
>> You just don't want to go away.
>> No, I just I like it too much here.
Oh, is that That's the live stream.
Live. So, yeah, we've got top side
cameras keeping an eye just all around.
A long time ago, everybody was wanting
to basically take a wind turbine and
anchor it to the seabed. So, what we
what sets this apart is is the fact that
it's floating on the surface. What's
going on over here? This is John.
[music] Hey, John. Hi. Hi. How you
doing? I'm good.
You've got your floating whole
structure, and then we've got your
blades, and then the legs are designed
to come to the surface so that it is
easier to maintain, change parts. When
it's in operational mode, the legs are
right down and the rotors turn in the
tide, capturing the energy.
And how much does this generate, this
one? 2 MW. So, that's equivalent to
2,000 UK homes. Wow.
The main challenge is just understanding
the environment. This swell coming
through, trying to [music] operate this
machine in conditions like that. That's
not easy.
Being from here, we understand the seas
and how it behaves.
So,
we are here. That channel is why where
we're at is so good cuz you have the sea
rushing through all these islands. Wow.
I don't think you appreciate it until
you go there and and see it for real.
But before we go out, Don't fall in the
water. Don't fall in the water because
wherever you fall in, you're not going
to be there in 2 seconds. You're going
to be like way out down heading to
Norway.
>> [snorts]
[laughter]
>> Where are you from originally? You're
not from here, are you?
>> No.
I'm too tall to be in from here.
>> [laughter]
>> No, I can't I'm from Manchester
originally.
I'm sorry about that, but
What's the purpose of these massive
things here? Uh people in the 50s get on
and off the boat easy.
>> [laughter]
>> To reach the rig, we have to move fast.
It's only safe to board when the
turbine's massive blades stop turning
during the brief period between incoming
and outgoing tides.
This is pretty much due north.
Uh it's about 11 nautical miles to the
site.
This looks like a submarine. Yeah,
yellow submarine.
Oh, wow.
Should I put this out? Oh, yeah. Stick
that out.
Look at that. No bother. He's away.
How big is this thing? 72 m, so it's no
small device. 500-ton structure.
Um there's there's the same amount of
thrust um as as a jumbo jet um on
takeoff. Well, it's got it's anchored to
the seabed.
>> Yes. There's two big, heavy chains all
the way down to the seabed, and then all
the way out to two anchors in in a
cross.
Does it move at all, this thing? Moves
20 m this way and 20 m that way when the
tide sets on. So, that's basically the
chains picking up
>> Yeah. Cuz it's a slack mooring system.
Sure. Yeah. It's It's quite It's quite
rigid. Wow.
On the end of each of these legs are the
rotors.
So, what you're saying is a couple
meters below surface, that's where you
have the big blade. Yeah. So, obviously,
right now, they could just be um sort of
parallel to us.
The machine won't kick in until the tide
reaches like a good meter per second.
So, that's good. That's good to know.
Right. Okay, let's go to this. It looks
pretty amazing. Right, so this is what
we call the forward end. And what is
Should I This is danger of death. What
does that mean?
>> Well, this is important to talk about
because obviously, you cannot generate
power
without doing something with that power.
So, this is the cable.
And it goes all the way to the seabed,
and then goes all the way to the
substation, and goes to the UK grid. So,
through this cable, we are actually
powering homes, you know?
Brian. Yeah. Well, can you take me
below? You want to put the kettle on?
So, all that power that's generated
comes back into these drives, gets
conditioned, and then goes into the HV
transformer. So, it is at 690 V
in
Okay.
>> And then it steps it up to 11,000 V in
that transformer. Yeah. That's going to
give you a bit of a Yeah, you don't want
to be touching that. No.
Help yourself to a coffee and a caramel
log. Oh, look at this. That's for you?
Um I mean, he doesn't do this when
you're not here.
Really? He never makes the coffee.
>> I feel so special.
I was thinking we should go upstairs and
then and then and have the coffee in the
uh Enjoy the view. Enjoy the view. Yeah.
Uh after you. Oh, thank you.
Thank you, sir.
So, how scalable is this This area tide
isn't just here. It's all the way up the
Oh, of course. So, as far as you can see
up there, the tide's ripping.
I'm so 60 turbines are planning There's
a big area up there, yeah, where there's
enough there's enough space where we
think we can fit 60 of these in, so. For
me, it just seems like another great
renewable. You can literally You know
exactly when It's predictable. Yeah,
it's predictable. The tide is
is always there, you know. So, you can
get a baseline power. What do you
expect, like 10 years from now, 20 years
from now? We've got a lot of projects
um in the pipeline, so we've got
projects in Orkney, but we're also
looking overseas.
Um we're working with them project
partners in Canada, where they've got
some of the most powerful tides in the
world there at the Bay of Fundy. So,
we're demonstrating that it it's
possible. That's that's that's uh That's
what you want. Yes, of course.
Yeah, we should probably think about
leaving cuz the tide's picking up.
So, what's the problem with being here
when that cuts in? We don't stay on the
machine when it's generating, so
Time to go. I want to get off this
thing. So, it's a good time to go.
>> Let's let's get off this thing now.
Orkney is already generating over 100%
of its
>> Yeah. electricity demand from
renewables.
So, Orbital Marine in some ways like a
the real success story. Absolutely. And
it's a real Orcadian success story,
which I'm I just think is fantastic.
We want to work with the local community
and encourage the next generation of
engineers to come and work in
renewables.
I've seen the impact that it's had for
Orkney and the jobs that it's created. I
just think it's it's amazing that Orkney
is is at the center of this innovative
technology that could help power various
different locations around the world.
Oh, look at that. There's a massive oil
rig.
Walk on your hands. Walk.
Hi. Hello. Sorry if to uh intrude again.
How you doing? I'm good. How are you?
Yeah, not too bad.
>> Who's this? Dexter. Dexter?
So, I just passed an oil rig on the way.
Brian said you you worked in oil and
gas. Yeah. Well, no, I was a a young
fellow, Brian's what? Younger than
Brian.
And but it being, you know, the the the
bombs just laying this massive pipeline.
This was the big thing that took over
from fishing and farming, really, in the
'70s.
>> Ah, you're so strong, Dexter.
>> [laughter]
>> You're so strong.
>> [screaming and groaning]
>> Okay, give me a give me a couple
minutes. We'll go play now.
Can we go and jump? Dexter, should we go
and jump?
So, there's not as many jobs in oil and
gas anymore as there used to be, right?
If you look ahead now, are you hopeful
for Orkney as [music] a community and
that you can still be thriving? It's
adapted in in the past, so why can't it
adapt going ahead? I think it will.
Yeah, no, it'll be good to see. And then
certainly for their lifetime, yeah.
We've been here for thousands of years
and not had to move away yet,
we're doing something okay.
>> [laughter]
>> We're making it work.
You can see why they like it here.
They kept saying we were silly, we'll
find a way. That's the the right
attitude, I think.
It's about using the opportunities that
arise, and now it's renewables, and it's
fantastic.
There's a purpose to what they do.
Beautiful day. It's so windy.
Enjoy.
Ah, got the wind in my back.
Maybe Orkney is not the end of the world
after all.
Maybe it's the beginning.
Green electricity is gathering momentum.
But it's only one piece of the puzzle.
Some of our heaviest industries still
run on fossil fuels,
and they're the hardest to change.
And that's what brings me home to
Denmark.
These industries that are difficult to
decarbonize, heavy industry, shipping,
transportation, uh plastics, chemicals,
they need so much energy. There's only
so much you can electrify.
The amount of
of battery storage is is just too too
much. It's too big.
You need fuel.
These container ships are on the oceans
for weeks, right?
And just imagine if you can make a fuel
that's made out of renewable energy.
I mean, if that is a real thing,
if it works, that could be that could be
massive.
>> [music]
>> Eik. Hi.
Nice to see you.
Hello. Welcome. I'm very excited to be
here. Yeah, welcome to Kasso.
Safety first.
Wow.
A lot of pipes. A lot of pipes, yeah,
exactly. And I'm going to show you a
little bit around. Yeah.
What we do here is an e-fuel called
e-methanol, where we take power [music]
and convert power into a fuel, which can
replace fossil fuel.
It doesn't sound complicated. How
complicated is it, though? We take
electrons from a nearby solar farm. It's
actually in the back here.
We have a 300 MW of capacity.
So, that's electricity. That's
electricity. That's electrons. Green
electrons, the good electrons. Yeah. We
take these electrons and then we go into
a electrolyzer process, which we have in
this building.
Oh, wow. This is electrolyzers, where we
take the water and split it into
hydrogen and oxygen. Yeah. So, then we
have hydrogen. Yeah. That is step number
one.
Then we have biogas. Just say biogas,
cuz this is something we've had since I
was a kid. It's always in part of
Denmark. It's like we have We have so
many pigs, we have so many cows.
>> Yes.
They piss and
That is the CO2 you capture. That is
basically biogenic CO2. And then the
magic [music] starts, because then in
the reactor, we combine the hydrogen
with the biogenic CO2 in a methanol
synthesis, and out of that we get
e-methanol. [music]
E-methanol is a very very nice molecule,
because it can be utilized as a fuel for
the heavy transport. So, we can take
large-scale container vessel from all
the way from Shanghai to Europe. And
then we can actually take it a step
further. We will also actually be able
to decarbonize uh the aviation, but also
the chemical sector. We're doing plastic
out of what we do here. So, the LEGO
Group utilize it for plastic blocks for
our clips. That's impressive. So, are
you saying you only began this 3 years
ago? 3 and 1/2 years back.
I think it's going well, because we're
now producing, we have customers. Novo,
the LEGO Group, and Maersk. These are
the three customers who are utilizing
That's
a little bit [laughter] of the Danish
economy. But anyway, I mean, you have to
start with good partnerships. Oh, that's
amazing. That's amazing.
>> That's maybe also why we succeeded with
this facility, because we did not start
with a PowerPoint. We did start with
customers. We interviewed customers,
what do you need in terms of quality, in
terms of volume, in terms of price?
Kasso is the world's first commercial
e-methanol plant utilizing only green
energy.
This time the tower.
Oh, this one. You're okay with heights,
I think. Yeah, yeah, we'll we'll we'll
see. We'll see. But what could possibly
go wrong?
Wow, yes, a lot of solar panels.
It spans over 300 hectares of land, and
what you see here in the front is where
we are making all our green electrons
utilized here at Kasso.
And here you see, this is the first
drop, Yeah. which was uh the 26th of
March this year.
When you held this the first time,
>> Yes. how did that feel?
Extremely good.
>> [laughter]
>> Because I mean, I know that a lot of
people have worked hard to to make it
get it done, and to see that they they
succeeded with all their bright ideas,
so that was of course a great moment.
First e-methanol.
2 years ago,
we were in Hamburg.
They hoped that they were able to use
hydrogen to decarbonize heavy [music]
industry.
And then now, to actually see this
happening,
it gives you hope. If that doesn't give
you reason for optimism, I don't know
what does.
>> [music]
>> And then it's like little added bonus
that it's uh
here in my home country.
That's make me proud.
This is actually fine. This is uh
it's just a minor little fix like this.
Our drone operator.
He doesn't want his his his his name out
there.
Uh and I'm not going to embarrass him.
Scott, can you take it?
Thanks.
With or without a drone, our next stop
is Denmark's largest container ship
port.
Over there is where we're going to
visit.
This port processes cargo from 7,000
ships a year, nearly all burning fossil
fuel.
But we're here to visit a very special
ship.
Well, I'm not that confident in the
maritime expressions, so
Just don't call it a boat when you're
around the captain.
>> Oh, I'm going on a ship now. They they
they will be ships or vessels. Ships or
vessels, yeah.
>> Not boat system. For some reason uh
It's not a boat.
Maersk is the world's second largest
container shipping company, moving goods
across every ocean.
And every voyage burns staggering
amounts of fuel. How big is the fleet,
the Maersk fleet? We have in total
around 710 vessels.
This vessel, the Laura Maersk, is the
world's first cargo ship powered by
e-methanol,
which they get from Kaskasi.
Hi. Yes, hi.
Thank you. Nice to have you. Nikolaj.
Hi. Hi. Okay.
Should I wait for us some cameras?
>> [laughter]
>> Should probably wait for some cameras.
We only got one.
Before I talk to you, do you have a
microphone? I have a microphone, yeah.
Oh, that case I can just talk. I can I
can keep going.
By the way, it says chief officer. Am I
to Am I above you now?
Just below. You're on my side You're on
my right hand.
That's good.
All right.
Okay, where are we going? You cannot
have chief engineer in your head and not
go to the engine room.
This is the bunker station where we take
the fuel.
This is where you take the fuel. Oh,
this is literally where you the fuel
comes in. Yeah. Since delivery of the
vessel, we have only been running on
non-fossil fuels.
That's the main engine.
That is so pristine.
It's clean. You see a lot of piping for
methanol and biofuel and whatever, yeah.
And this is the exhaust system going
out.
In terms of how far we can go on a full
tank, depends a bit on the speed and the
schedule, but normally consumption has
been around 3 months.
There must be so much maintenance. Uh
there's a lot of of planned maintenance
and the methanol system is a new
technology, so there's been some hiccups
along the way. That's That's how you
learn. That's how we learn.
I can hear the ping pong already going
on.
Good evening. Hi. You're practicing?
Want to join? Yeah.
May the best man win.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm trying to run down the stairs
because the elevator is quite small. So
when you said stairs, how many stairs
are we talking?
>> [laughter]
>> So this is uh
this is how you stay fit.
>> Yes, exactly.
Oh, wow.
This is so much bigger than I imagined
for some reason. And still this is just
a small vessel.
How much CO2 do you actually not put out
into
into the air? It's something to the tune
of
uh 5,000 tons a year for this particular
vessel. Uh-huh.
So I think that's something like the
equivalent of a thousand petrol cars.
If we look at the entire fleet
of of Maersk, then we emit 32 million
tons. Ooh. Or actually 34, which which
is more than Denmark. Wow.
Amazing thing about this is that it
works.
But this ship has been running since
2023.
>> Yes, almost 2 years now. And we have
like about 70% of the time, including in
and out of port, we have been running on
on methanol.
So what's the biggest challenge as you
see it in terms of of converting
completely, not just this ship, but more
ships? Uh but to get enough fuel for for
a start. Is that Is that what what this
is about? So we we kind of understood
that you could sail on other things than
conventional fuel oil and um
and that the technology was available,
so we started asking ourselves, why is
there no fuel? Well, that's because
there are no ships. And then you
you kind of had that circular reference
of they're taking on the egg. And then
if we order a ship, then then then at
least there will be demand. And then we
will make an effort to actually get some
fuels. And it turns out that the project
that was most mature was literally in
our backyard. And that's when we signed
the deal with Erik the Branding,
Kaskasi. And I think what's special
about this particular
vessel here now is that it it actually
runs on these liquefied sunshine. So
that that hasn't really been done
before. And we've seen now that this was
the first methanol ship. I think now
there's almost 300 on order. Uh-huh. So
so there's a lot of ships coming, so the
demand is there in in principle.
>> Yeah.
I mean, it's the same for [music] any
sector. We can do this. Technology is
not the excuse. It's entirely doable.
2% of all CO2 emissions globally [music]
is from shipping, from this industry.
And we need shipping. I mean, this is so
integral to our way of life.
We're so used to believing that the only
way to run massive machines [music] is
by putting the diesel oil into them.
Now we found out, well, that's not
actually true.
I'm so excited this is happening, that
they've they're doing it, and you see
the potential. [music]
The stakes are
ridiculously high.
We have to do so much more.
There's no reason not to do it.
Technology is not that complicated.
It's in our best interest. We [music]
have to. Thank you.
So now it's just a question of will.
Now it's actually happening.
And we are on a ship that is now going
to sail to Hamburg, and the fuel will
be, like they call it, from the sun,
literally harvested off the solar
[music] panels around Kaskasi.
That is progress. That is massive.
>> [music]
[singing]
[music]
>> Hey.